hey guys welcome back to flicks recap my
name is luke pelletier and in today's
video we'll be going through the 2016
cult classic sociological bloodbath
known as the bellco experiment
just so you know there are spoilers
ahead you've been warned but before we
start be sure to drop a like leave a
comment and of course subscribe to flix
recap if you dig the rundown now let's
get to it
the employees of bellco core arrive at
work one day to find heavily armed
security men checking their cars
some of the employees are sent back home
with no clear explanations
the rest continue their day as usual
until a voice on the intercom tells them
that there are 80 people in the building
and that they all must decide to kill
two people within 30 minutes or there
will be severe consequences
the employees give mixed responses some
think it's a joke others are confused
and a very small minority are cautious
the jokes and laughter are then stopped
by the automatic closing of all doors
and windows by steel shutters mike milch
one of the employees commands two
technicians to try and cut the steel
shutters at the entrance with a
blowtorch
barry norris the company's coo steps
forward and explains that the steel
shutters were there in case of an
emergency and that no one should panic
and that this is probably just a prank
the two technicians however realize that
they can't cut through the metal as it's
not steel or actually any other metal
they know of
30 minutes pass and the heads of four
employees explode causing other people
in the office to start running for cover
thinking that they were shot
now norris notices that the heads of
these employees exploded from the inside
making an impact from an outside bullet
impossible
mike then deduces that it must be these
tracers that the company put in each
employee's head for insurance mike
rushes to the bathroom and tries to
remove his explosive he gets warned by
the intercom to stop or they'll detonate
the explosive in his head
he stops and is consoled by his lover
leandra meanwhile norris approaches evan
the security guard and asks him to give
norris the key to the armory but evan
refuses norris reminds evan that he's
evan's boss but evan counters and tells
norris that he quits and he'll give him
the key when he's allowed to leave
the intercom comes back on and tells
everyone that they should not tamper
with any cameras or try to remove the
tag in their heads and that for the next
round of chaos they won't provide a
countdown
the voice then states that there are now
76 people alive in the building and that
they want 30 dead within the next two
hours the voice says that failure to
accomplish this will result in the death
of 60 people
now one of the technicians ronnie hits
the other technician with a spanner
caving his skull in and killing him
another employee danny wilkins sees this
and starts to leave the area
inconspicuously but ronnie notices her
she tries to make a run for it but
ronnie catches her and just before he
can kill her she pushes him and impales
him on a rod killing him
upstairs a debate ensues in two groups
form the first led by norris and the
second led by mike
norris's group wants to kill 30 people
in the hope of saving another 30.
mike's group doesn't believe that they
have the right to take innocent lives
the debate turns into a stalemate until
leandra suggests that they all go to the
roof and hang banners in an attempt to
draw attention for rescue and most
people agree
another employee marty has this idea
that the water has a chemical in it
that's putting everyone on edge so he
decides to pour out all the water from
the fountains onto the floor
meanwhile leandra mike and evan run into
norris and his crew who are now trying
to use the blowtorch to open the armory
door since evans still won't give them
the key
mike asks why they want the key and
norris tells them it's so that they can
keep a safe watchful eye on the weapons
mike tells norris that he thinks the
weapons are already safe
but norris rebuts by telling mike he
doesn't care about what mike thinks
frustrated evan closes the tap
connecting the blowtorch to the gas
now wendell tries to attack evan but
evan draws his gun until wendell backs
off
mike is able to calm evan down and
collect his gun he then proceeds to
shoot the tap of the gas making it
impossible to reconnect to the blowtorch
mike evan and leandra then leave to go
and drop banners from the roof
they go upstairs but before they can
hang the banners the security outside
starts shooting at them now mike is hell
bent on hanging these banners but he's
deterred by the others so they all
decide to go downstairs
on their way they're ambushed by norris
and his group
norris batters mike in the head knocking
him out cold wendell points a kitchen
knife at evan and asks him where the
keys are
evan removes the keys from his trousers
and throws them down the stairs so
wendell reactively stabs him and kills
him
norris and his crew take leandra and
head to the armory they open it and take
the guns inside
norris instructs his men to go and
gather everyone and round them up and
bring them to the lobby
norris instructs everybody with kids
under the age of 18 to go and stay in
the corner
he then pulls out everybody over the age
of 80 and makes them stand facing a wall
very ominous for everyone in the lobby
but the number of people actually facing
the wall only reaches seven so norris
decides to start picking random people
to join them and once he hits 30 he
starts executing them
dany is still downstairs alone so when
she hears the sound of gunshots she goes
to the power terminal and turns off the
light
this distraction gives the people still
alive upstairs a chance to escape
seeing this norris and his crew start
shooting anyone in sight so as to meet
their cruel twisted quota
some of his crew are killed by others
who might have initially left the lobby
but came back to run an ambush
meanwhile dany finds her friend roberto
and together they enter the elevator the
intercom then tells them that so far
they've killed 29 people and that if
they don't kill one person within the
next two minutes 31 more people will die
terry who is one of norris's crew
continues his hunt for people but
leandra outsmarts him and knocks him
down however she refuses to kill him
this seemingly noble action actually
forces the intercom's hand and 31 people
including terry are killed
the intercom then assigns everyone their
last tasks in one hour whoever has the
highest kill count will be allowed to
leave the building the voice then tells
them their current tally norris is first
with 11 kills followed by wendell who
has seven kills
vince has one kill and dany also has one
kill
wendell dustin and norris start killing
everyone they come across so that they
can duke it out for the highest kill
count
danny and roberto are hiding on top of
the elevator car when norris enters the
elevator
norris heads for the top floor he
notices that there are people on top of
the elevator car so he shoots upward
this prompts dany to jump off and
roberto tries to do the same but he's
too slow
and gets stuck in between floors which
results in him being crushed
leandra finds marty and his friend chet
removing the bombs from the heads of
deceased employees they tell her that
they want to use them to blow a hole in
the wall
she agrees that it's a good idea but she
tells them that she needs to find mike
she uses the intercom to contact mike
even though she knows that that would
mean revealing her position to the
co-workers that have gone postal
leandra marty and chet move to another
room and see wendell moving the body of
a dead man leandra shoots him and he
falls she tries to shoot him again but
she runs out of bullets
wendell then returns fire at chet
leandra and marty take cover but as they
push the table towards wendell he shoots
marty and kills him
leandra manages to push the table on top
of wendell immobilizing him
she then carries marty's axe and
brutalizes wendell's face with it she
goes downstairs and finds mike
she gives him the bombs that marty and
chet had extracted just then vince takes
point and starts throwing molotov
cocktails in their direction but he
can't land an effective hit so mike and
landra try to evade vince and run
upstairs but quickly double back when
they run into norris who also begins to
open fire on them
vince is about to lob another molotov
when he's shot dead by norris it's then
revealed that leandra has caught a
bullet in the crossfire she succumbs to
her injury and dies
meanwhile dany is in the elevator and
just as she's exiting norris immediately
shoots her in the head
only norris and mike remain
after a bit of cat and mouse mike gets
the jump on norris and knocks the gun
out of his hand
they start fighting and it's obvious
that norris is the better fighter
but mike is able to pick up a tape
cutter which he uses to bash norris's
brain in
the steel shutters open and the security
outside comes and picks up mike he
staggers a bit but they're still able to
take him to the hangar where the
identity of the man over the intercom is
revealed
the man tells mike that they were simply
using belko to study human behavior
mike then reveals that he's planted the
bombs leandra gave him on each of the
men around him he quickly makes a dash
and pushes the switches detonating the
explosives he then snatches their gun
and shoots the other crew members and
mike lives to tell the tale
i'm a sucker for films that employ gory
psychological trauma under the guise of
social experiments i think it's a very
disturbing prompt that conjures memories
of real-life violent experiments like
the stanford prison experiment
while that's probably not something i'd
mention on a first date it's definitely
a genre that i'll always be interested
in
now one of the reasons i really enjoy
the bellco experiment is because it uses
a larger number of people as a study
group which is not only proper research
modeling but also allows for a variety
of different reactions and results to
shine through
wendell and norris for example devolve
into bloodthirsty survivalists
leandra shifts from being a paladin who
refuses to jeopardize her code by
killing terry to a corrupted cog in the
machine when she mangles wendell's face
into oblivion and danny and mike toe the
line somewhere in the middle between
mike being an opportunist and an
aggressive strategist and dany
tirelessly trying to stay away from the
action and in the shadows
what were some of the biggest points of
the bellco experiment that stuck out to
you and what are some other films that
feature twisted experiments like this
that you've enjoyed let me know in the
comments below be sure to like the video
and as always subscribe to the channel
so you don't miss the next recap until
next time